---
timestamp: 'Sun Dec 07 2025 15:47:04 GMT-0500 (Eastern Standard Time)'
parent: '[[..\20251207_154704.2b05e963.md]]'
content_id: ebcc50382d05adf5097ae001f0d02bf28de3652684106baef0de6eafa0f14879
---

# Flaws / Opportunities

## 1. Duplicate usage of green to indicate "Likely" preference and event block on calendar view

* **Issue:** Confuses users into thinking the event block color corresponds to the "Likely" preference.
* **Fix:** Change event block color.

## 2. Preference selection of course above lecture/recitation times

* **Issue:** Made it seem like you select a preference first.
* **Fix:** Move preference selection *below* lecture/recitation times **OR** only display preferences after the selection of some event associated with a course.

## 3. Unable to compare a group member and friend's schedule in the calendar view

* **Why:** There wasn't an option in the "Groups & Friends" dropdown to select "All," which displays all group members and friends together.
* **Fix:** Add an "All" option.

## 4. Removing oneself as admin allowed other users to still request to join (Zombie Requests)

* **Why:** After one removes themself as admin of a group, the group becomes "adminless," so pending join requests are not viewable or resolvable by anyone.
* **Fix:** Only make the "Make Admin" choice available to users who are currently admins. Ensure they cannot remove their admin position without designating someone else as an admin first, ensuring pending join requests remain viewable.

## 5. Clicking a group name again as admin to see a pending join request

* **Why:** The only way to see a pending join request is to click the group name and view the members list.
* **Fix:** Add some message or symbol to indicate a pending join request on the main view.
